Amanda: This is how you make dinosaurs?
Dr. Grant: No. This is how you play God.


Erik: I read both of your books. I liked the first one more. Before you were on the island. You liked dinosaurs back then.
Dr. Grant: Back then, they hadn't tried to eat me yet.


Symposium Leader: [Dr. Grant is giving a lecture] Now, does anyone have a question?
[many people in the audience raise their hands]
Dr. Grant: Fine. Does anyone have a question that does not relate to Jurassic Park?
[most people lower their hand]
Dr. Grant: Or the incident in San Diego, which I did not witness?
[nearly everyone else lowers their hand]


Billy Brennan: You have to believe me, this was a stupid decision, but I did it with the best intentions.
Dr. Grant: With the best intentions? Some of the worst things imaginable have been done with the best intentions. You know what, Billy? As far as I'm concerned, you're no better than the people that built this place.


Dr. Grant: I have a theory that there are two kinds of boys. There are those that want to be astronomers, and those that want to be astronauts. The astronomer, or the paleontologist, gets to study these amazing things from a place of complete safety.
Erik: But then you never get to go into space.
Dr. Grant: Exactly. That's the difference between imagining and seeing: to be able to touch them. And that's... that's all that Billy wanted.
[a field of beautiful dinosaurs comes into view]


Dr. Grant: Did you read Malcolm's book?
[Erik nods]
Dr. Grant: So?
Erik: I don't know. It was kinda preachy. And too much Chaos. Everything Chaos. It just seemed like the guy was high on himself.
Dr. Grant: That's two things we have in common.


Dr. Grant: [the team come across a rotting carcass] It's OK. It's dead.
[a T-Rex raises its head out of the carcass]
Dr. Grant: Nobody move a muscle.
[the T-Rex roars and the team runs off]
Dr. Grant: Shit!


Dr. Grant: Why me?
Paul Kirby: He said we needed someone who'd been on the island before.
Udesky: Yes, but I did not tell you to kidnap somebody!
Dr. Grant: I have never been on this island.
Paul Kirby: Sure you have, you wrote that book.
Billy Brennan: That was Isla Nublar. This is Isla Sorna - Site B.


Charlie: [Making toy herbivores fight] Rawr! Rawr Rawr!
Dr. Grant: Actually, Charlie, those are herbivores. They really wouldn't be interested in fighting with each other, but these ones here are carnivores, and they really like fighting with each other. They'll use their teeth and claws to rip each other's throats out.
Ellie Degler: Alan, he's three. Let's wait till he's five.


Dr. Grant: Great, just great. We're in the worst place in the world and we're not even being paid.


Erik: Be careful with that. T-Rex. It scares some of the smaller ones away but attracts one really big one with the fin.
Dr. Grant: This is T-Rex pee?
[Eric nods yes]
Dr. Grant: How'd you get it?
Erik: You don't wanna know.


Paul: What are you doing? Those things are after us because of those!
Dr. Grant: Those things know we have the eggs. If I drop them in the river, they'll still be after us.
Paul: What if they catch us with them?
Dr. Grant: What if they catch us without them?


Dr. Grant: Erik, I have to tell you, I'm astonished that you've lasted eight weeks on this island.
Erik: [Stunned] ... Is that all it's been?


Dr. Grant: Oh my God.
Amanda: What is it?
Dr. Grant: It's a bird cage.
Amanda: For what?


Billy Brennan: [Referring to Spinosaurus] I don't remember that one being on InGen's list.
Dr. Grant: It wasn't on their list. Which makes you wonder what else they were up to.


Reporter: Are you saying you wouldn't want to get on Isla Sorna and study them if you had the chance?
Dr. Grant: No force on earth or heaven could get me on that island.


Dr. Grant: On this island there is no such thing as safe.


Erik: [being rescued] Wow. You have to thank her now. She sent the Navy and the Marines!
Dr. Alan Grant: God bless you, Ellie.


Billy Brennan: I rescued your hat.
Dr. Grant: Well... that's the important thing.


Dr. Grant: [In the plane hanging up in the tree after crashing] We haven't landed yet.


[last lines]
Erik: Where do you think they're going?
Dr. Grant: I don't know. Maybe just looking for new nesting grounds. It's a whole new world for them.
Amanda: I dare 'em to nest in Enid, Oklahoma.


Dr. Grant: Reverse Darwinism - survival of the most idiotic.


Paul Kirby: [a loud roar rocks the jungle] What was that?
Billy Brennan: It's a Tyrannosaurus.
Dr. Grant: I don't think so. It sounds bigger.


Dr. Grant: Either way... you probably won't get off this island alive.


Ellie Degler: So, what are you working on now?
Dr. Alan Grant: Raptors, mostly.
Ellie Degler: [sardonically] My favorite.
Dr. Alan Grant: Do you remember the sounds they made?
Ellie Degler: I try not to.
Dr. Alan Grant: Ellie, all our theories about raptor intelligence, what they were capable of... we weren't even close.
Ellie Degler: Tell me.
Dr. Alan Grant: Well, we did cranium scans of a fossil skull. We found what looks like a very sophisticated resonating chamber.
Ellie Degler: Wait a second. So we were right? I mean, they had the ability to vocalize?
Dr. Alan Grant: I'm convinced that's the key to their social intelligence.
Ellie Degler: Which explains why they could work together as a team.
Dr. Alan Grant: Yeah, and coordinate their attacks so their prey wouldn't know what was going on.
Ellie Degler: They could talk to each other.
Dr. Alan Grant: To a degree we never imagined. Ellie, they were smart. They were smarter than dolphins or whales. They were smarter than primates.


Erik: That lady you called.
Dr. Alan Grant: Hmm?
Erik: Who is she? How do you that she can help us?
Dr. Alan Grant: She was the one person I could always count on. I owe her a lot. Although I don't think I ever told her that.
Erik: You should.


Ellie Degler: So what were you doing?
Dr. Grant: Evolving.


Billy Brennan: Alan, I want to thank you for bringing me along.
Dr. Alan Grant: Yeah, well, the bones will still be there when we get back. That's the great thing about bones; they never run away. The truth is, you got me into this, and I have no intention of being on my own with these people. Don't get too excited, Billy. Chances are we won't see a thing. Your turn to be nice. Wake me when we get there.


Billy Brennan: [Alan returns from giving an academic presentation] So, how'd it go?
Dr. Grant: Well, it's not too late to change your major, Billy.
Billy Brennan: Not good, huh?
Dr. Grant: Worse. We're gonna have to pack up in four weeks.
Billy Brennan: Three. I had to rent some equipment. Come here, I gotta show you something. You like computers, right?
Dr. Grant: I like the abacus, Billy.


Dr. Alan Grant: What are you doing?
Billy Brennan: [Breathing heavily] I was photographing the nest.
Dr. Alan Grant: Don't do that again.
Billy Brennan: [laughs] Sorry.

Dr. Ellie Sattler: So, what are you thinking?
Dr. Alan Grant: We're out of a job.
Dr. Ian Malcolm: Don't you mean extinct?


Dr. Ian Malcolm: Gee, the lack of humility before nature that's being displayed here, uh... staggers me.
Donald Gennaro: Well thank you, Dr. Malcolm, but I think things are a little bit different then you and I had feared...
Dr. Ian Malcolm: Yeah, I know. They're a lot worse.
Donald Gennaro: Now, wait a second now, we haven't even seen the park...
John Hammond: No, no, Donald, Donald, Donald... let him talk. There's no reason... I want to hear every viewpoint, I really do.
Dr. Ian Malcolm: Don't you see the danger, John, inherent in what you're doing here? Genetic power is the most awesome force the planet's ever seen, but you wield it like a kid that's found his dad's gun.
Donald Gennaro: It's hardly appropriate to start hurling generalizations...
Dr. Ian Malcolm: If I may... Um, I'll tell you the problem with the scientific power that you're using here, it didn't require any discipline to attain it. You read what others had done and you took the next step. You didn't earn the knowledge for yourselves, so you don't take any responsibility for it. You stood on the shoulders of geniuses to accomplish something as fast as you could, and before you even knew what you had, you patented it, and packaged it, and slapped it on a plastic lunchbox, and now
[bangs on the table]
Dr. Ian Malcolm: you're selling it, you wanna sell it. Well...
John Hammond: I don't think you're giving us our due credit. Our scientists have done things which nobody's ever done before...
Dr. Ian Malcolm: Yeah, yeah, but your scientists were so preoccupied with whether or not they could that they didn't stop to think if they should.
John Hammond: Condors. Condors are on the verge of extinction...
Dr. Ian Malcolm: [shaking his head] No...
John Hammond: If I was to create a flock of condors on this island, you wouldn't have anything to say.
Dr. Ian Malcolm: No, hold on. This isn't some species that was obliterated by deforestation, or the building of a dam. Dinosaurs had their shot, and nature selected them for extinction.
John Hammond: I simply don't understand this Luddite attitude, especially from a scientist. I mean, how can we stand in the light of discovery, and not act?
Dr. Ian Malcolm: What's so great about discovery? It's a violent, penetrative act that scars what it explores. What you call discovery, I call the rape of the natural world.
Dr. Ellie Sattler: Well, the question is, how can you know anything about an extinct ecosystem? And therefore, how could you ever assume that you can control it? I mean, you have plants in this building that are poisonous, you picked them because they look good, but these are aggressive living things that have no idea what century they're in, and they'll defend themselves, violently if necessary.
John Hammond: Dr. Grant, if there's one person here who could appreciate what I'm trying to do...
Dr. Alan Grant: The world has just changed so radically, and we're all running to catch up. I don't want to jump to any conclusions, but look... Dinosaurs and man, two species separated by 65 million years of evolution have just been suddenly thrown back into the mix together. How can we possibly have the slightest idea what to expect?
John Hammond: [laughing] I don't believe it. I don't believe it! You're meant to come down here and defend me against these characters, and the only one I've got on my side is the blood-sucking lawyer!
Donald Gennaro: Thank you.


[last lines]
Dr. Alan Grant: Hammond, after careful consideration, I've decided, not to endorse your park.
John Hammond: So have I.
Dr. Alan Grant: [later, after the T-Rex fight, everyone is leaving on the helicopter] Come on. Come on.


Dr. Alan Grant: [about the velociraptors] What kind of metabolism do they have? What's their growth rate?
Muldoon: They're lethal at eight months, and I do mean lethal. I've hunted most things that can hunt you, but the way these things move...
Dr. Alan Grant: Fast for a biped?
Muldoon: Cheetah speed. Fifty, sixty miles an hour if they ever got out into the open, and they're astonishing jumpers...
John Hammond: Yes, yes, yes. That's why we're taking extreme precautions.
Dr. Alan Grant: Do they show intelligence? With their brain cavity...
Muldoon: They show extreme intelligence, even problem-solving intelligence. Especially the big one. We bred eight originally, but when she came in she took over the pride and killed all but two of the others. That one... when she looks at you, you can see she's working things out. That's why we have to feed them like this. She had them all attacking the fences when the feeders came.
Dr. Ellie Sattler: But the fences are electrified though, right?
Muldoon: That's right, but they never attack the same place twice. They were testing the fences for weaknesses, systematically. They remember.


Dr. Alan Grant: You got any kids?
Dr. Ian Malcolm: Me? Oh, hell yeah, three. I love kids. Anything at all can and does happen. Same with wives, for that matter.
Dr. Alan Grant: You're married?
Dr. Ian Malcolm: Occasionally. Yeah, I'm always on the lookout for a future ex-Mrs. Malcolm.


Volunteer Boy: That doesn't look very scary. More like a six-foot turkey.
Dr. Alan Grant: A turkey, huh? OK, try to imagine yourself in the Cretaceous Period. You get your first look at this "six foot turkey" as you enter a clearing. He moves like a bird, lightly, bobbing his head. And you keep still because you think that maybe his visual acuity is based on movement like T-Rex - he'll lose you if you don't move. But no, not Velociraptor. You stare at him, and he just stares right back. And that's when the attack comes. Not from the front, but from the side,
[makes 'whoshing' sound]
Dr. Alan Grant: from the other two raptors you didn't even know were there. Because Velociraptor's a pack hunter, you see, he uses coordinated attack patterns and he is out in force today. And he slashes at you with this...
[he produces raptor claw from his pocket]
Dr. Alan Grant: A six-inch retractable claw, like a razor, on the the middle toe. He doesn't bother to bite your jugular like a lion, say... no no. He slashes at you here, or here...
[he lightly 'slashes' across the kid's body with the raptor claw]
Dr. Ellie Sattler: Oh, Alan...
Dr. Alan Grant: Or maybe across the belly, spilling your intestines. The point is, you are alive when they start to eat you. So you know, try to show a little respect.
Volunteer Boy: OK.
[Alan leaves the now slightly frightened kid]


Dr. Alan Grant: T-Rex doesn't want to be fed. He wants to hunt. Can't just suppress 65 million years of gut instinct.


Tim: [after the tour car falls upside down on them at the bottom of the tree] Well... we're back... in the car again.
Dr. Alan Grant: Well, at least you're out of the tree.


John Hammond: ...And there's no doubt; our attractions will drive kids our of their minds!
Dr. Alan Grant: And what are those?
Dr. Ellie Sattler: Small versions of adults, honey...


Dr. Alan Grant: [Grant throws a branch at the inert perimeter fence] I guess that means the power's off.
[Grant grabs the fence, pretending to be electrocuted and Lex and Tim scream]
Lex: [Grant smiles at Lex and Tim] That's not funny.
Tim: [laughing] That was great.


Tim: What do you call a blind dinosaur?
Dr. Alan Grant: I don't know. What do you call a blind dinosaur?
Tim: A Do-you-think-he-saurus.
Dr. Alan Grant: Ha ha. Good one.
Tim: What do you call a blind dinosaur's dog?
Dr. Alan Grant: You got me.
Tim: A Do-you-think-he-saurus Rex.


Dr. Alan Grant: [seeing the dinosaurs for the first time] How fast are they?
John Hammond: Well, we clocked the T-Rex at 32 miles an hour.
Dr. Ellie Sattler: T-T-Rex?
John Hammond: [nodding] Mm-hm.
Dr. Ellie Sattler: You said you've got a T-Rex?
John Hammond: [nodding] Uh-huh.
Dr. Alan Grant: [grabbing Hammond's shoulder] Say again?
John Hammond: [smiling] We have a T-Rex.
[Grant almost faints]


Dr. Alan Grant: [watching Gennaro jump out of the tour car and sprint to the porta-potty at the sight of the T-Rex] Well, where does he think he's going?
Dr. Ian Malcolm: When you gotta go, you gotta go.


Dr. Alan Grant: [finding egg shells] Oh my God. Do you know what this is? This is a dinosaur egg. The dinosaurs are breeding.
Tim: But Grandpa said all the dinosaurs were girls.
Dr. Alan Grant: Amphibian DNA.
Lex: What's that?
Dr. Alan Grant: Well, on the tour, the film said they used frog DNA to fill in the gene sequence gaps. They mutated the dinosaur genetic code and blended it with that of a frog's. Now, some West African frogs have been known to spontaneously change sex from male to female in a single sex environment. Malcolm was right. Look...
[we see a trail of baby dinosaur footprints]
Dr. Alan Grant: Life found a way.


Dr. Alan Grant: [Dr. Grant gets back in the car after checking with the other car for a working radio] Their radio is out too. Gennarro said to stay put.
Dr. Ian Malcolm: The kids OK?
Dr. Alan Grant: I didn't ask. Why wouldn't they be?
Dr. Ian Malcolm: Kids get scared.
Dr. Alan Grant: What's to be scared about? It's just a little hiccup in the power...
Dr. Ian Malcolm: I didn't say I was scared.
Dr. Alan Grant: I didn't say you were scared.
Dr. Ian Malcolm: I know.


Dr. Alan Grant: [after Tim has survived being electrocuted] Big Tim, the human piece of toast.


Dr. Alan Grant: [calling Hammond on the phone] Mr. Hammond, the phones are working.
John Hammond: Are the children all right?
Dr. Alan Grant: The children are fine. Call the mainland. Tell them to send the damn helicopters.
[we hear the raptors smashing the windows]
Dr. Ellie Sattler: It's gonna come through the glass!
[Grant starts shooting at it. Hammond listens to the noises]
John Hammond: [screaming] GRANT!


Dr. Alan Grant: [stunned after seeing the dinosaurs for the first time] They're moving in herds. They do move in herds.


Dr. Alan Grant: [looking at a dinosaur herd] Tim. Tim, can you tell me what they are?
Tim: They're, Gal... uh... uh, Galli... uh, Gallimimus.
Lex: Are those... meat-eating... uh, meatasauruses?
Dr. Alan Grant: [the dinosaurs change direction] The wheel uniform changes just like a flock of birds evading a predator.
Tim: They're, uh... they're flocking this way.


Dr. Alan Grant: [Dr. Grant enters his mobile trailer home and sees John Hammond in his fridge] What the hell do you think you're doing in here?
[John pops open a bottle of champagne. The cork comes flying at Grant and he ducks]
Dr. Alan Grant: Hey, we were saving that.
John Hammond: For today, I guarantee it.


Dr. Alan Grant: [Hammond's sudden arrival via helicopter threatened the discovery of a new dinosaur skeleton] Who in God's name do you think you are?
John Hammond: John Hammond. And I'm delighted to meet you finally in person, Dr Grant.
[they shake hands and Hammond blows dust off his hand]
John Hammond: I can see that my 50,000 a year has been well spent.
Dr. Ellie Sattler: [Ellie storms into the trailer] OK, who's the jerk?
Dr. Alan Grant: This is our paleobotanist, Dr...
Dr. Ellie Sattler: Sattler.
John Hammond: Ah hah!
Dr. Alan Grant: Ellie, this is Mr Hammond.
John Hammond: Forgive the dramatic entrance, Dr Sattler.
Dr. Ellie Sattler: [apologetic] Did I say jerk?
John Hammond: Come on, sit down, sit down.
[Alan and Ellie try to help out]
John Hammond: No, no, no I can manage this. I know my way around the kitchen. I'll come right to the point. I like you, both of you. I can tell instantly about people. It's a gift. I own an island, off the coast of Costa Rica. I've leased it from the government and I've spent the last five years setting up a kind of biological preserve. Really spectacular, spared no expense. It'll make the one I've got down in Kenya look like a petting zoo. And there's no doubt, our attractions will drive kids out of their minds.
Dr. Alan Grant: What are those?
Dr. Ellie Sattler: Smaller versions of adults, honey.
John Hammond: And not just kids. Everyone. We're going to open in the Fall, that is if the lawyers don't kill me first. I don't care for lawyers, do you?
Dr. Alan Grant: [together with Ellie] Oh, we... don't really know, really.
Dr. Ellie Sattler: [together with Grant] Oh, we... don't really know, really.
John Hammond: Well, I do I'm afraid. This particular pebble in my shoe represents my investors. That they insist on outside opinions.
Dr. Ellie Sattler: What kind of opinions?
John Hammond: Well, your kind not to put too fine a point on it. I mean, let's face it... in your particular field you're the top minds. And if I could just persuade you, to sign off on the park, give it your endorsement, maybe even pen a wee testimonial, I could get right back on shedule, er... schedule.
Dr. Ellie Sattler: Why would they care what we think?
Dr. Alan Grant: What kind of park is this?
John Hammond: It's right up your alley. I tell you what. Why don't you come down, just the pair of you for the weekend? I'd love to have the opinion of a paleobotanist as well. I've got a jet standing by at Choteau.
Dr. Alan Grant: I'm sorry Mr Hammond, but that's impossible. We just dug up a new skeleton...
John Hammond: I could compensate you by fully funding your dig...
Dr. Alan Grant: [wavering] And this is a very unusual time.
John Hammond: ...for a further three years.


[They're feeding leafy branches to a docile Brachiosaurus]
Lex: Can I touch it?
Dr. Alan Grant: Sure. Just think of it as... kind of a big cow.


Dr. Alan Grant: [with Lex in front of the T-Rex] Don't move! He can't see us if we don't move.


Dr. Alan Grant: [All of a sudden their electric car stops] What did I touch?
Dr. Ian Malcolm: Uh, you didn't touch anything. We stopped.


Dr. Alan Grant: Kids! You want to have one of those?
Dr. Ellie Sattler: I don't want that kid, but a breed of child Dr. Grant could be intriguing. I mean, what's so wrong with kids?
Dr. Alan Grant: Oh, Ellie, look, they're noisy, they're messy, they're expensive.
Dr. Ellie Sattler: Cheap... cheap...
Dr. Alan Grant: They smell.
Dr. Ellie Sattler: They do not smell.
Dr. Alan Grant: Some of them smell.
Dr. Ellie Sattler: Oh, give me a break!
Dr. Alan Grant: Babies smell!


Lex: What if the dinosaurs come back while we're all asleep?
Dr. Alan Grant: Hmm. I'll stay awake.
Lex: All night?
Dr. Alan Grant: [reassuringly] All night.


Tim: I threw up.
Dr. Alan Grant: Oh, well that's OK. Give me your hand.
[Tim refuses to move from the car]
Dr. Alan Grant: Tim, I won't tell anyone you threw up, just... just give me your hand.


Dr. Alan Grant: [loading a rifle] OK, it's just the two Raptors, right?
[to Ellie]
Dr. Alan Grant: You're sure the third one's contained?
Dr. Ellie Sattler: Yes, unless they figure out how to open doors.


Lex: He left us! He left us!
Dr. Alan Grant: But that's *not* what *I'm* gonna do.


Dr. Alan Grant: [holding a newly-hatched dinosaur in his hands] What species is this?
Henry Wu: Uh, it's a velociraptor.
Dr. Alan Grant: [very worried] You bred raptors?


Dr. Ian Malcolm: [Malcolm waves a flare, to get the T-Rex's attention] Hey, hey, hey, hey!
Dr. Alan Grant: Ian, freeze!
Dr. Ian Malcolm: Get the kids!
[the T-rex sees the flare, roars at Malcolm, and runs after him]
Dr. Alan Grant: Get rid of the flare!
Dr. Ian Malcolm: Get the kids!
Dr. Alan Grant: Get rid of the flare!


Dr. Ian Malcolm: [about Ellie] She's, uh... tenacious.
Dr. Alan Grant: You have no idea.


Dr. Alan Grant: It's just like climbing down from a treehouse. Did your Dad ever build you a treehouse?
Tim: No.
Dr. Alan Grant: No, dammit!


Volunteer #1: This new program's incredible. A few more years development and we won't even have to dig anymore.
Dr. Alan Grant: Where's the fun in that?


Lex: [a Brachiosaur eats from the tree Grant, Lex and Tim are sleeping in] Go away!
Dr. Alan Grant: It's OK. It's OK. It's a Brachiosaur.
Tim: It's a veggiesaurus Lex! Veggiesaurus!
Lex: Veggie!


Lex: What are you and Ellie gonna do now if you don't have to pick up dinosaur bones anymore?
Dr. Alan Grant: I don't know. I guess... I guess we'll just have to evolve too.


Dr. Alan Grant: [seeing the Brachiosaur for the first time] Uh... it's... it's a dinosaur!


Dr. Alan Grant: What kind of park is this?
John Hammond: It's right up your alley.


Lex: [Brachiosaurs hearing Grant imitate they're singing look up in his direction] Sh. Sh. Don't let the monsters come over here.
Dr. Alan Grant: They're not monsters, Lex. They're just animals. And these are herbivores.
Tim: That means they only eat vegetables, but for you I think they'd make an exception.
Lex: I hate the other kind.
Dr. Alan Grant: They just do what they do.


Dr. Alan Grant: [the Triceratops] Ellie, this one was always my favorite when I was a kid. And now I've seen one, its the most beautiful thing I ever saw.


Lex: [the T-Rex has just killed a Gallimimus] I want to go now.
Dr. Alan Grant: Look how it eats.
Lex: Please!
Dr. Alan Grant: [to Tim] I bet you'll never look at birds the same way again.


Dr. Alan Grant: I hate computers.
Dr. Ellie Sattler: The feeling's mutual.


Dr. Alan Grant: [while climbing a tree to rescue Tim stuck at the top in a car] I hate trees!


Tim: [a Brachiosaur] It looks like it has a cold.
Dr. Alan Grant: Yeah, maybe.


Dr. Alan Grant: [to Malcolm, about the T-Rex] Keep absolutely still. Its vision is based on movement.


John Hammond: Well, we clocked the T-Rex at 32 mph
Dr. Ellie Sattler: [looks at Hammond] T-Rex... , you said you've got a T-Rex?
Dr. Alan Grant: [to Hammond] Say again
John Hammond: We have a T-Rex


Dr. Alan Grant: [Grant waves a flare, trying to get the attention of the T-Rex, attacking the other car with Lex and Tim inside] Hey!


Dr. Alan Grant: Lex, Lex you're choking me! Grab the wire! Grab the wire!
[Lex grabs a loose wire of the electric fence just as the T-Rex pushes the car with Tim inside over the edge just missing Grant and Lex by inches]


Lex: Timmy!
Dr. Alan Grant: Tim!
[the T-Rex tries to push the car with Tim inside over an embankment]


Dr. Alan Grant: Look at the pubic bone, turned backward.

Dr. Alan Grant: Dinosaurs eat man. Woman inherits the earth.

Dr. Alan Grant: Hammond, after careful consideration, I've decided, not to endorse your park.

Dr. Alan Grant: [stunned after seeing the dinosaurs for the first time] They're moving in herds. They do move in herds.

Dr. Grant: With the best intentions? Some of the worst things imaginable have been done with the best intentions. You know what, Billy? As far as I'm concerned, you're no better than the people that built this place.

Dr. Grant: I have a theory that there are two kinds of boys. There are those that want to be astronomers, and those that want to be astronauts. The astronomer, or the paleontologist, gets to study these amazing things from a place of complete safety.
Erik: But then you never get to go into space.
Dr. Grant: Exactly. That's the difference between imagining and seeing: to be able to touch them. And that's... that's all that Billy wanted.

=========== Quotes from Sam Neill interviews ============

"Of all the characters I've played, I think I have more in common with that guy than with Reilly: Ace of Spies (1983) referring to Carl Fitzgerald in Death in Brunswick (1990). Who Weekly (NZ) 8/23/93.

Referring to The Simpsons (1989): "I'm playing a cat burglar. I've made it. This is the high point of my career. I'm really chuffed". EW, 7/23/93.

"Perhaps we should look at somewhere else where they recently used the time-old bribe of tax cuts, and see how it worked. In 2000, George W. Bush, under the reasonable sounding 'compassionate conservatism', offered huge tax cuts. And he delivered. Take a look at America now. The rich are certainly richer, but the economy is in the tank, a healthy surplus has been converted into a massive deficit, and the U.S. is a place that cannot even afford the basics. Like maintaining levees in low-lying Louisiana. Might I suggest that tax cuts led indirectly to the flooding of New Orleans?".

If all I did was acting, I'd go out of my mind.

The pathetic thing about actors is they don't feel valid unless they're acting.

(2012, on My Brilliant Career (1979)) A most important role for me, I must say, because that's the film that took me out of New Zealand, the film that allowed me to live and work in Australia, which I love. Yeah, that was probably more transformative than anything else I've done, in a way. Without that film, I never would've-prior to that, I'd done Sleeping Dogs (1977), and I thought, "That was a one-off, I'll never do another film." And if you look at Sleeping Dogs, you think, "Well, I wouldn't use that bugger again." But I did get cast in Brilliant Career, I kind of understood a little bit more about what was necessary, and it was a great opportunity for me. That film changed me into an actor rather than just a part-time thespian.

(2012, on Dead Calm (1989)) Well, that was fantastically good fun, actually, although quite a lot of the time we were seasick and cold and wet and stuff like that. It was a very interesting film to do, as there were only three characters, you know, but it works very well, and it built quite a few careers. For [director] Phillip Noyce, it launched him into big action films, and there's this Australian actress called Nicole Kidman in it who you might've heard of...

(2012, on filming Sleeping Dogs (1977) and working with Warren Oates) You see, that was my first feature film of all, with my friend Roger Donaldson, and there I really had no idea what I was doing. In fact, none of us did. Apart from Michael Seresin, who shot it, no one on that production had ever made a feature film before. In fact, there hadn't been a feature film made in New Zealand for something like 17 years. So we were really... We lit a little candle, which didn't illuminate much of the darkness in front of us, but we got through it. It's a very uneven film, and I'm pretty uneven in it. Oh, actually, the other person on the film who had any experience was, of course, the wonderful Warren Oates. He came in for about two weeks, I think, and... He discovered on day one, I think, that in the area of New Zealand where we were working, they grow the best marijuana, and so he was basically smoking joints all day. In some of the scenes where he's playing Col. Willoughby, a U.S. army advisor in New Zealand, he's addressing his men with his hands behind his back, and you might even possibly detect the little curving smoke behind his right shoulder, because he wouldn't even put the joint aside when the camera was rolling. He just put it behind his back! But Warren was a lovely guy, and when he left-I'll never forget this, actually: He shook my hand, and he said, "Goodbye, Sam! I'll see you in the movies!" It was such a surprising thing for him to say, but I was very touched by it. I never saw him again, because he died rather young not very long after that. But he lived hard, you know. And he had some great stories of the madness of working with Sam Peckinpah.

[2014, on socializing with Michael Williams and Warren Clarke during the making of Enigma (1982)] My liver is still recovering.

[on changing his name from Nigel to Sam, aged ten] I saved myself a lifetime of pain.

[Tell us a secret.] I was christened Nigel. It set me back for years.

[Which living person do you most admire, and why?] My brother, Michael. He is an academic and has devoted his life to scholarship; my life seems trivial by comparison. Bastard.

[What did you want to be when you were growing up?] A soldier like my father. I would have been useless.

[Which words or phrases do you most overuse?] I'm sorry to say, the word is fuck.

[What keeps you awake at night?] Worrying about insomnia.

[What do you most dislike about your appearance?] Pretty much all of it. But these weird fat bits on my hips - yuck!
[What song would you like played at your funeral?] I Will Remember You, by Sarah McLachlan. That'll choke the bastards up if nothing else will.

[What is the trait you most deplore in yourself?] Sloth. No, wait, greed. No, gluttony.

[What has been your biggest disappointment?] My complete ineptitude at sport.

[What is the worst job you've done?] Everyone says it's the Fifa film [United Passions], but I had a marvellous time.

[Who would play you in the film of your life?] Tilda Swinton.

[What makes you unhappy?] Solitude. I crave company.

[What is your guiltiest pleasure?] Come Dine With Me. Everything you need to know about the British in one tidy hour.

[What is the worst thing anyone's said to you?] "Did we sleep together? Really? Are you quite sure?"
[on working with Meryl Streep on Plenty (1985) and A Cry in the Dark (1988)] By the time we did the second I was very comfortable with her. She scared the shit out of me in the first one. I was too young and too bedazzled by her. I was daunted. And I think on day one we had a sex scene. I wonder how many actors have done sex scenes with Meryl Streep. Probably just a handful.

[on Priscilla: Queen of the Desert] The only regret I do have is that I did turn down Priscilla. It's probably indiscreet to say, but I'll say it anyway - Terence Stamp ended up playing the part. It would've been fun to play with my mate Hugo [Weaving] and Guy [Pearce], of course. I made a mistake there, because it wasn't about being in drag, which I'd be happy to do - I wear a dress all the time anyway.

================ Quotes from other movies ==============

Event Horizon (1997)
"Where we're going, we won't need eyes to see." — Dr. William Weir
"Hell is just a word. The reality is much worse." — Dr. William Weir

The Hunt for Red October (1990)
"I would have liked to have seen Montana." — Captain Vasily Borodin

Hunt for the Wilderpeople (2016)
"Me and this fat kid, we ran, we ate, and read books, and it was the best." — Hector Faulkner
"Pretty majestical, aye?" — Hector Faulkner